hey guys welcome to episode number 33 of
asta Franco's gym today's question is
Joe I just completed you're built to
last program for the second time and I
must say it was my favorite favorite
program to date I made amazing gains in
both strength and I put on quite a bit
of muscle one of the things that stood
out to me was that you incorporated PEC
flies into the routine I've never seen
them before in any of your routines I
thought they were on the defranco band
list the way you taught the flash was
like nothing I've ever seen but as usual
your tweak of the exercise worked
wonders as I actually have pecs for the
first time in my life congratulations
I'm just interested in knowing our PEC
fly something you threw in the built to
last program to appease the meatheads I
like that word appease or are they now a
DeFranco approved exercise
I just didn't know about appreciate your
insight and thanks for all you do not so
Pecola speak from Queens thank you for
your question not so Pecola Spee leave
it to the New Yorkers to come up with
something like that but um yes Pet flies
was something that were on my banned
list for quite a while I considered them
a vanity exercise so you never saw them
in the programming of any of my athletes
I will say this I've changed my views in
that um built to last was mainly for the
washed-up meathead community but I
changed my views as far as PEC flies
with athletes because I've seen over the
years quite a few PEC tears in football
for example where a lineman goes to make
a block and his arm gets caught out here
uh it gets called into Jersey or
somebody goes to tackle a defender goes
to tackle somebody and their arm kind of
gets ripped out this way so being in
that position and strengthening the pecs
in that
kind of extreme lengthened position
isn't really a bad thing and so I've
changed my views on that I incorporate
them sometimes into the programming of
my athletes now they were no longer
banned but they are certainly not a
priority in the training of my athletes
but for built to last for washed-up
meatheads Peck flies are an awesome
exercise for Peck development as you
said yourself you are not so Peck las'
anymore so you see the results of doing
them but in my opinion and not to toot
my own horn so to speak I think you're
seeing with Peck development because of
the specific way that we teach the fly
um and and this is actually I can't take
credit for I actually saw Charles Glass
who is a more of a bodybuilding trainer
way back in the day I saw him um or read
somewhere saw a picture of him teaching
the PEC fly in this manner the manner
that we do it in the built last program
and and it made a lot of sense to me and
that's why I incorporate it to this day
so I'm going to show you a set a couple
things I want you to take note of and
then I'll just reiterate a we're not
going with our elbows bent at 90 degrees
you see a lot of guys they basically
they're basically performing a neutral
grip bench press and they call a PEC fly
we're going to do a true fly where I
want your elbows literally 99% straight
I just want them a little soft so
they're not completely locked so you're
going to see my arms are pretty much
straight maybe a one or two degree bend
in that just a little soft at the elbows
that's number one number two you're
going to see me starting with my thumbs
facing each other our palms forward as I
come out and down we're not bending the
elbow at all when we come down we go
into the eccentric the arm stay straight
as you're about halfway down we are
going to externally rotate and in that
bottom position our palms are going to
be facing up or in that externally
rotated position we're going to pause
for a second in that stretch
position the reason why we do that is
your pecs are internal rotators so when
we are in the stretched position by
externally rotating that increases the
stretch even a little bit more we're
going to pause for a split second there
get control in that kind of control and
strength in that extreme range of motion
although you don't have to go extreme go
as far as you're comfortable with then
as we come up about halfway up we're
going to rotate so the thumbs are facing
each other again because again like I
mentioned pecs our internal rotators so
when we're going to contract by turning
the thumbs towards each other our palms
forward internally rotating you are
going to get a better contraction on the
pecs
so externally rotate in the stretch
position internally rotate when we're
trying to get that nice peak contraction
to develop those pecs so I'll show you
five reps and pay attention to those key
pointers
and you'll notice I'm not smashing the
dumbbells at the top
I'm keeping tension on the muscle right
before they touch and then back down
so that is how we coach the PEC fly in
the built class program that's how I
coach it generally most of the time when
I prescribe it for the reasons mentioned
earlier definitely give it a shot
it is night and day compared to your old
way of doing PEC flies I guarantee you
the one thing I forgot to mention was
you are going to have to cut your weight
almost in half if you're used to doing
your PEC flies like this my general rule
of thumb the strongest I've ever been
I'll never go heavier or the heaviest
I've ever gone was having ten percent of
my max one rep max one rep in the
benchpress my one rep max in the
benchpress barbell bench press ten
percent of that any chance so if I when
I was bench pressed in 400 pounds 405 on
the bar if I could get four or five for
one I'm not going to do more than forty
pound dumbbells or say 410 percent of
400 is 40 40 pounds in each hand and
this exercise is actually pretty heavy
so if you're a 300 pound venture
probably not going to go much heavier
than 30 pounds so use that as a
guideline as far as weight don't think
you know you're going to like if you do
them right and do them the way I just
mentioned ten percent of your max bench
in each hand is actually a really really
good number for this exercise to get in
that 8 to 10 rep range with so I'll use
that as a guideline give these a try and
hopefully we have some a lot more not so
PEC less people out there
thanks again we see you in the next
episode